(♪♪)
>> Gill: This is "Marketplace".
Cellphone bills gone wild.
>> Why is it costing us that
much?
>> Gill: Insiders share their
tricks.
>> Ask him if he's going to
warm transfer you.
>> Gill: It's the people versus
the cellphone companies.
>> Mission accomplished.
>> Gill: You can't afford to
miss this.
It's your "Marketplace".
(♪♪)
>> Charslie: Okay, you patched
in?
(phone ringing)
We're setting up our very own
call centre.
Three customers are about to
take on the big three cellphone
companies.
It's a call centre challenge.
(♪♪)
No-nonsense Nancy is
ready to rumble with Rogers.
Says they're refusing to
replace her dud of a phone.
>> I'm usually not one for
conflict, but this one just
pushed me to the edge.
>> Charslie: Darrin is duking
it out with Bell.
He feels tricked into a deal
too good to be true, and now he
wants his money back.
>> My message to Bell is I'm
coming back to try again.
>> Charslie: This Italian mama
is taking on Telus.
>> This is outrageous.
>> Charslie: To keep Maria's
business, they're going to have
to make her an offer she can't
refuse.
Our customers can't solve their
problems.
So we're calling in two of the
pros to help them win their
battles.
They have the inside scoop.
The tips and tricks you need to
know.
>> Hi, my name is Ron.
How can I help you today?
>> Charslie: Ron Finnigan spent
years on the cellphone service
front lines.
>> Thank you for holding.
>> This retired rep was a pro
and has the proof.
>> I won this award for good
service and excellent sales.
>> Charslie: Ron's heard all
your complaints.
>> Cellphone providers can do a
better job.
>> Charslie: To help make it
better, he's about to tell all.
>> I want to help you the
viewer get the best deal you
can.
>> It's ringing.
>> Charslie: Professional bill
buster Mohammed Halabi takes
on the big three every day.
>> Transfer me to customer
relations.
It can be, like, 40 minutes,
an hour, on hold.
>> Press one.
>> Frustrating.
Very frustrating.
>> Charslie: He's worked on the
inside selling phones for one
of the big guys.
Fed-up customers hire him to
fight their battles.
>> That's just B.S.
>> Charslie: He knows the right
buttons to push to beat down
bills.
>> Mission accomplished.
>> Charslie: Hi Mohammed.
Hi Ron.
Thank you guys so
much for coming.
Welcome to our call centre.
>> Thank you.
>> Charslie: So we have our
three very frustrated customers.
They're standing by.
They're ready to hit the
phones.
Sound good?
>> Sounds good.
>> Charslie: Okay, so Mohammed,
you're going to talk them
through this.
You're gonna help them solve
their problems.
And, Ron, you're going to be
giving us the scoop, fill us in
on what's really happening on
the other line.
>> Absolutely.
>> Charslie: So let's meet our
first caller.
Nancy Hebert from Mount Hope,
Ontario, come on down.
(♪♪)
>> This is the phone that
causes all my grief.
>> Charslie: Nancy says Rogers
sold her a dud.
>> I've just spent two years
with a phone that randomly
shuts off.
>> Charslie: It's her only
phone, so she tried to fix the
problem pronto.
>> So I've talked to clerks in
the store, agents over the
phone.
I have written a letter to
Rogers.
>> Charslie: She says all she's
been offered is a used
refurbished phone.
>> It says your device is new.
>> Charslie: Now she's going
into cellphone battle mode.
>> Rogers, do the right thing
or I'm walking.
>> Charslie: Hi, Nancy.
>> Hi.
>> This is Mohammed.
Ron.
>> Hi, nice to meet you.
>> So I think you deserve a
free phone.
>> Perfect.
>> There shouldn't have been
any quibble at all once
you've demonstrated the
phone is defective.
It should have been replaced.
>> Charslie: All right, you go
hit that phone, Nancy.
We got your back.
>> Okay, thank you.
(♪♪)
>> Testing.
Testing.
Can you hear me?
>> Yes, I can.
>> I'll be occasionally talking
into your ear.
>> Charslie: We're good to go.
We're rolling.
Nancy, dial that phone.
(♪♪)
>> I have been two years in a
contract with a phone that
shuts off constantly.
And I want to know whether
Rogers is going to do right by
me.
>> Charslie: Ron says front
line reps don't have much
power.
When he was taking calls,
here's all he could offer.
>> Probably the most that they
can give you a credit for is
$50.
They certainly can't give you a
free phone.
>> Charslie: Not much power and
not much time.
Rogers' reps are rewarded based
on how quickly they deal with
calls.
That's why Mohammed's strategy
is to bypass the front line and
ask for customer relations.
To do that, try this.
>> Ask him if he's going to
warm transfer you.
>> Are you going to warm
transfer me?
>> Charlsie: What's a warm
transfer?
>> It's where he'll actually get
the other agent on the other
line and conference in the
call.
>> Charslie: This way he will
explain what we already know to
the next person so she doesn't
have to waste her time.
>> Exactly.
Yeah.
>> Charslie: After 11 minutes,
she gets a warm transfer to
customer relations.
But it's a cold response.
>> They need to give me the
phone of my choice for zero
dollars.
And if you can't authorize that
for me today, could you please
put me on hold yet again and
get me someone who can make
that authorization for me?
(♪♪)
>> Charlsie: Is that true?
>> He's plainly lying.
Nancy, ask to speak to a
manager.
>> Can you please escalate this
call and put me through to a
manager?
>> Charslie: Mohammed's not
buying it, and the agent isn't
transferring to a manager.
Why wouldn't an agent want to
transfer someone to a manager?
>> It's not so much they don't
want, their instructions are
deal with the call and don't
transfer it.
At each level they're going to
try and do whatever they can to
stop her from going to a higher
level because it is a negative
for the people that transfer
the call.
>> Charslie: Ron says part of
his performance was based on
keeping transfers to a minimum.
Mohammed says stand your
ground.
>> Nancy how are you feeling
right about now?
>> I'd like to get off this
phone.
>> Charslie: After 46 minutes
into the call...
>> Charslie: Finally she gets a
manager.
Persistence pays off.
>> Charslie: Yeah, Nancy got
what she wanted, a phone for
zero dollars.
In the end, she's saving over
$600.
>> I'm going home happy.
Stick with it, and you'll get
what you deserve.
Thank you.
(♪♪)
>> Charslie: You guys ready for
another call?
>> We're ready.
>> Charslie: Okay, let's bring
in our next caller.
Maria Iaci from Burnaby, B.C.,
come on down.
Maria Iaci's cellphone is all
about family.
>> I have five children and
three grandchildren, another
one on the way.
I've been married for 37 years
to the same man.
I have a relationship with
Telus that lasts more than most
marriage last.
>> Charslie: But she's not
feeling a lot of love for Telus
these days.
>> We are paying far too much,
227, 228, $245.
>> Charslie: Maria and her
husband use their phones for
the basics.
>> Cannoli.
We're making cannoli.
Those are cannoli shells.
I don't play games.
I don't download things.
Doesn't fit my needs, nor does
it fit my wallet.
>> Charslie: Maria wants the
plan changed and her bills
slashed.
>> Telus, let's make this
happen.
>> Hi.
>> Charslie: Hi Maria.
Big smile on your face.
I see you brought some
accessories.
>> Over 20 years these are some
of the phones that I've gotten
from them.
>> You're a loyal customer.
That's really important.
So you know, I think today you
need to get some discounts
on your plan and get pricing
that's more reflective of your
needs.
>> They can update her pricing
to make it much more attractive
for her.
>> Charslie: Are you ready?
>> I'm excited.
>> Charslie: I think you're
feisty.
Go in there and get them Maria.
>> Cha-ching!
>> Pick up that phone.
[Laughter]
>> Go get them.
(♪♪)
>> Charslie: Maria's account
has phones for her, her husband
and son.
Mohammed thinks her $200 Bill
shouldn't be much more than 100
monthly.
>> I feel that I'm paying way
too much money for our three
cellphones.
>> Charslie: Maria gets
transferred to the loyalty
department.
She's on hold for 16 minutes.
>> Charslie: Then finally a
real person.
>> Yeah, I am.
I'm a 20-year loyal customer.
>> Charslie: Mohammed says
there's cheaper deals for
long-term customers like Maria,
but those prices aren't
advertised.
If you don't ask, they may not
tell.
>> Tell him to please come
back with something better
than what's offered in-market.
>> I really want something to
really wow me and that's
offered, like, way better than
what's in the market.
>> In-market is what your new
customer would be eligible for.
It's the prices that are
publicized out in the market.
The out-of-market plans or the
loyalty plans are for tenured
customers like Maria.
>> I've been with you guys 20
years.
And I think I deserve
something, like, over the top.
>> Give me a few moments Maria.
I'm going to put you on a quick
hold.
>> Charslie: Six minutes
later...
>> Drumroll
>> That's not a savings.
Tell him you deserve better
pricing.
This is standard pricing.
>> If that's my loyalty deal,
like, what's the last 20 years
been?
>> I think I'm going to go in
on this one.
>> Okay.
(♪♪)
>> Gill: Stay on the line.
our cellphone challenge
ramps up.
>> We're calling in today to
either keep our business or
move our business.
>> Gill: Ready to hang up on
your cellphone company?
Join the live chat with our
coach and get advice at
cbc.ca/marketplace.
>> Gill: "Marketplace", always
on call for you.
(♪♪)
>> Charslie: Cellphone bill
buster Mohammed Halabi is about
to talk tough with Telus.
>> Tell him I'm going to speak
to him on your behalf.
>> I'm going to have to pass
the phone on to a friend of
mine.
>> Charslie: Maria is having
trouble convincing Telus to
give her a discount on her
pricey plan.
There's better deals for loyal
customers.
And Mohammed knows the right
buttons to push.
Former call centre service rep
Ron Finnigan is listening in.
>> So at this point, we're --
you know, 20-year long customer,
in my view should be getting
something a little bit better
than this.
>> Can you ask somebody who can
do better?
Because you're going to end
up losing that account that's
giving 20 year of business.
>> Charlsie: Mohammed says
never accept the first offer.
Keep on escalating.
>> Thank you.
>> Charslie: After holding for
over 7 minutes...
>> Charslie: A manager comes on
the line.
>> We've been overpaying for
years and years and years.
I really don't want to waste
more time on this.
I'm looking to spend about $115
a month on all three of these
lines, and we're calling in
today to either keep our
business or move our business.
And you know, it's your call.
>> So what are you offering
here right now?
>> I'm sure you and I can
figure something out Dave you
know?
>> Charslie: A few minutes
later, the offer.
>> Okay, say that again, sorry?
>> Charlsie: Look how excited
Maria is.
(♪♪)
>> Charslie: Three agents and
75 minutes later, Maria gets a
deal.
(♪♪)
>> I am so thrilled.
I can't believe it went down
that low.
With the help of Mohammed
anyways.
>> You have to have some basic
understanding of what's
available in the market, first
of all.
>> Charslie: Educate yourself.
>> Educate yourself.
>> Charslie: Maria saves about a
thousand dollars a year on
her cell bills.
>> I will take that I can do
this.
If I can do it, anyone can.
>> Charslie: Enjoy those
savings.
Ready for another call?
>> Super excited.
>> Charslie: Fantastic!
Let's meet our next caller.
Darrin Maidlow from St. Albert,
Alberta, come on down.
>> My relationship with Bell
mobility is currently strained.
>> Charslie: Darrin's beef with
Bell starts with turbo sticks.
A gadget that shares his
cellphone data with his
computer.
A Bell rep called him up out
of the blue and offered him
two for free.
>> I asked the reprasentative
numerous times, this isn't
going to cost extra right?
I'm not going to be paying for
this, right?
And he assured me that
wasn't the case.
>> Charslie: Sure the sticks
were free, but Darrin says
he wasn't told he'd be charged
30 bucks a month to use them.
>> I immediately called Bell
and spoke to a representative
who assured me this problem
would be corrected on my
next bill.
>> Charslie: Three years later,
still no fix.
He's out of the contract but
he's out about a thousand
bucks, and he wants it all back.
>> What can you do?
It's me against a giant
corporation.
I don't have the skills to take
on Bell myself.
>> Charslie: Don't worry,
Darrin.
Help is here.
Hi, Darrin.
>> Hello.
>> Charlsie: Welcome.
So Mohammed, what do you think
he's entitled to?
>> Well he was clearly promised
that these were for free with no
additional monthly charge.
He was clearly wronged.
They told him they were going
to correct it, they didn't.
He should get his entire money
back.
>> Charslie: You ready to take
it on?
>> You bet.
>> Good luck, Darrin.
>> Thank you.
>> I've seen this happen over
and over again.
>> Charslie: Ron says Darrin's
not alone.
Ron's dealt with customers
misled about extra charges on
stuff they thought would be
totally free.
>> Charslie: Darrin goes
through it all again.
>> Just the amount I paid for
the turbo sticks each month for
the three years.
>> Cover the phone, mention the
fact that somebody promised you
a resolution.
Right?
That's really important.
>> Charslie: Darrin is feeling
good.
It's the first time he gets a
manager on the line.
But then comes the offer.
>> Yeah, I was assured that they
were free monthly.
And I would really like to get
all of my money back.
>> Well, I absolutely did call.
And I called several times, but
after several attempts I gave
up.
I was assured that the first
time I called it would be taken
care of on my next bill, and
it was not.
>> Charslie: That's right.
Even though Darrin insists he
complained, Bell says they have
no record of his calls.
(♪♪)
>> This is just nonsense.
>> It's a bit odd to me that
they have all these detailed
notes about when they were put
on the plan, and there's no
subsequent notes?
>> Charslie: Hmm.
So there are notes on the sale.
But nothing about Darrin's
complaint.
(♪♪)
>> Excuse me.
If you can let me finish.
I don't know why you're cutting
me off.
I'm not even done talking yet.
>> Gill: will Mohammed's tough
talk score a win this time?
>> Gill: Hold the line.
Hold your ground.
This is your "Marketplace".
>> This is just -- it's
nonsense.
(♪♪)
Tell him you're going to pass
the phone to somebody to speak
on your behalf.
>> Charslie: Mohammed Halabi is
fighting on behalf of Bell
customer Darrin who feels
ripped off.
>> He was promised these sticks
would be free monthly.
There was going to be no monthly
cost for them.
>> Charslie: But there was.
About a thousand bucks over
three years.
Darrin's hoping Mohammed can
get him his money back.
>> How would you feel if this
happened to you?
Let me ask you that question.
>> That's what he did.
>> Charslie: After going back
and forth for several
minutes...
>> So he finally gave up, and
if there was going to be a
cancellation fee -- excuse me
if you can let me finish.
>> I don't know why you're
cutting me off.
I'm not even done talking yet.
>> No, you can talk.
Go ahead.
>> Then I want to escalate this
call because obviously this
isn't going anywhere.
>> I'm not interested in
waiting 24 to 48 hours --
excuse me.
I'm not interested.
It's within your capability to
find me a feasible solution,
and this isn't acceptable.
>> Charslie: Nice try.
But no movement on the
three-month credit worth $90.
>> This is extremely
frustrating.
Because they're making it seem
like the fault is on you.
When it isn't.
(♪♪)
>> Charslie: Darrin's heading
home without a deal.
Back in Edmonton, Bell plays
telephone tag with Darrin.
Today he's going to give it
another shot.
(♪♪)
>> Oh there we are.
So I'm going to --
>> Charlsie: Coach Mohammed
conferences in from his Ontario
office.
He's not ready to throw in the
towel either.
>> We're good.
I'm taking a big deep breath
here before I start.
>> Charlsie: A supervisor comes
on the line.
>> Charlsie: Valued customer?
How about that.
Off to a good start.
And guess what she finds?
(♪♪)
>> Charslie: Well, well.
Bell does have a record of
Darrin calling in about the
turbo sticks.
>> Exactly.
And that's what's really
frustrating is that nobody left
really proper notes on the
account.
>> Charslie: This call sure is
different than what Bell said
the first time around.
>> Yes.
He spent a lot of money over it.
>> Charslie: And then comes
this shocker...
>> Charslie: What?
Did you hear that?
Sold under false pretenses.
>> Okay, great.
So this is obviously happened
before.
You've seen this kind of issue
>> Charslie: Still with that
admission, Darrin feels
vindicated and seems this
supervisor wants to help but
says her hands are tied.
>> Charslie: We asked Bell
about the notes on Darrin's
calls and that thing about
false pretenses.
They tell us reps do their best
to help customers and promote
products accurately.
And they're still not going to
give Darrin a full refund but
he's going to keep fighting.
>> Bell, I hope you make the
right call and reimburse me my
money.
>> Charslie: Coach Mohammed
will stay by his side.
>> I need to say farewell for
now to one another.
I hope the next time we talk
it's on awesome, positive
monetary gain terms.
>> Charslie: We're gonna keep
following this story.
>> All right.
So, until then, adios.
>> Gill: Want to bust your
cellphone Bills?
Get our cellphone cheat sheet
at cbc.ca/marketplace.
Start dialing.
>> So these are the electrodes.
>> Gill: Wiring up doctors.
>> David: What's the longest
you've ever been awake?
>> I think close to 24 hours.
>> David: 24 hours straight.
>> Yeah.
>> Gill: Marathon shifts.
>> Too much.
It's just not safe.
>> David: He's falling back
asleep.